# tetra-evo

This framework can generate 3D tetrahedral meshes using grammar-like production rules which are derived using an evolutionary algorithm. See [here](INSTALL.md) for an install guide and [here](USER_GUIDE.md) for a user guide. A detailed explanation of the paradigm this framework is designed after can be found [here](johns_paper). A brief introduction is provided below.

## Grammar & Tetrahedrons

Given a starting “seed” tetrahedron, we can name each of the four faces of the tetrahedron with labels “A”, “B”, “C”, and “D”. Production rules allow the tetrahedron to be modified. We have three types of rules.

* rename(A) -> B
* grow(A) -> A, B, C
* divide(A) -> A, B, C, D

The face label in the parentheses is the face “consumed”, and the labels to the right of the arrow are the new face label(s) which are generated. As you can see, labels are not unique, and simply inform which production rule to use. The rename rule simply changes the label of the face. The grow rule generates a new tetrahedron using the consumed face as the base of the tetrahedron, and the three new faces of the tetrahedron are labeled according to the right-hand label list. The divide rule splits the consumed face into four triangular sub-faces, using the right-hand list to name them. To control the order faces are consumed, a queue is used and newly generated faces are added to the back of the queue. 

## Grammar Generation

By stacking these rules in succession, complex shapes can be made. However, we must have an interesting set of rules, or grammar. To generate one, we use an evolutionary algorithm. To start, a fixed number of grammars are generated. These are used to generate tetrahedrons which are given a score based on a fitness function. The grammars which produce the worst performing tetrahedrons are eliminated and new ones are generated by taking successful ones and changing them through small mutations or crossover. Then, the cycle is repeated with this new set of grammars. Over successive generations we hope that better preforming tetrahedrons are generated through this process of artificial selection. A more detailed explanation of evolutionary algorithms can be found [here](evo_paper).


